docs/localization.md, before:

# Localization notes

Here are some guidelines for contributors who would like to help improve the translations in basedpyright.

## General guidelines

- In cases where a word is difficult to translate but it refers to the name of a symbol, leaving it in English and using backticks makes more sense than attempting to translate it. For example, if the English error message says "cannot assign to Final variable" then the translation could just be "невозможно присвоить переменной `Final`" instead of trying to use a Russian word for "final".
- basedpyright is maintained by developers who only speak English, so it would be helpful if you could get someone who also speaks your language to review your changes as well.
- We do not use any automated systems to translate our new rules that are specific to basedpyright, so they currently do not have any translations at all (see [this issue](https://github.com/DetachHead/basedpyright/issues/81)). Providing translations for those would be greatly appreciated.
- The initial translations from Pyright seem to be pretty low quality and low consistency. If you want to start a "renovation" for a particular language, it's a good idea to come up with a glossary of common terms so that the final translations will be consistent. Check if the https://docs.python.org has a translation for your language, and if it does, use that as a baseline.

## Specific languages

### Russian

#### Style guide
- Буква Ё/ё не используется
- Знак препинания `;` заменяется на точку
- Не стоит в точности повторять структуру английского сообщения, если она неестественна для русского языка.
  В частности избегайте конструкции `X является Y` (`класс Foo является абстрактным` -> `класс Foo абстрактный`)
- По возможности делайте структуру сообщения проще

#### Глоссарий

| English term              | Canonical translation |
| ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Type annotation           | Аннотация типа        |
| Comprehension             | Включение             |
| set (встроенный тип)      | Множество             |
| Type variable             | Переменная типа       |
| Final                     | `Final` (как есть)    |
| @final / final class      | `@final` (как есть)   |
| Data class                | Датакласс             |
| Enum                      | Перечисление          |
| f-string                  | f-строка              |
| Format string literal     | f-строка              |
| XYZ is deprecated         | XYZ [больше] не рекомендуется |
| Complex [number]          | Комплексное число     |
| keyword argument/parameter| Именованный аргумент/параметр |
| mapping                   | mapping (нет перевода)|
| awaitable                 | awaitable (нет перевода) или: поддерживающий await |
| positional-only           | только позиционный    |
| keyword-only              | только именованный    |

Commit message:

update localization docs and add translation section to readme

docs/localization.md, after:

# Localization notes

the translations in pyright come from microsoft's localization team, who are not programmers. this not only results in poor quality translations, but microsoft also doesn't accept contributions to fix them ([more info here](https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/issues/7441#issuecomment-1987027067)).

in basedpyright we want to fix this but we need your help! if you are fluent in a language other than english and would like to contribute, it would be greatly appreciated.

Here are some guidelines for contributors who would like to help improve the translations in basedpyright.

## General guidelines

- Do not use any automatic translation tools.
- In cases where a word is difficult to translate but it refers to the name of a symbol, leaving it in English and using backticks makes more sense than attempting to translate it. For example, if the English error message says "cannot assign to Final variable" then the translation could just be "невозможно присвоить переменной `Final`" instead of trying to use a Russian word for "final".
- basedpyright is maintained by developers who only speak English, so it would be helpful if you could get someone who also speaks your language to review your changes as well.
- new rules that are specific to basedpyright currently do not have any translations at all (see [this issue](https://github.com/DetachHead/basedpyright/issues/81)). Providing translations for those would be greatly appreciated.
- The initial translations from Pyright seem to be pretty low quality and low consistency. If you want to start a "renovation" for a particular language, it's a good idea to come up with a glossary of common terms so that the final translations will be consistent. Check if the https://docs.python.org has a translation for your language, and if it does, use that as a baseline.

## Specific languages

### Russian

#### Style guide
- Буква Ё/ё не используется
- Знак препинания `;` заменяется на точку
- Не стоит в точности повторять структуру английского сообщения, если она неестественна для русского языка.
  В частности избегайте конструкции `X является Y` (`класс Foo является абстрактным` -> `класс Foo абстрактный`)
- По возможности делайте структуру сообщения проще

#### Глоссарий

| English term              | Canonical translation |
| ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Type annotation           | Аннотация типа        |
| Comprehension             | Включение             |
| set (встроенный тип)      | Множество             |
| Type variable             | Переменная типа       |
| Final                     | `Final` (как есть)    |
| @final / final class      | `@final` (как есть)   |
| Data class                | Датакласс             |
| Enum                      | Перечисление          |
| f-string                  | f-строка              |
| Format string literal     | f-строка              |
| XYZ is deprecated         | XYZ [больше] не рекомендуется |
| Complex [number]          | Комплексное число     |
| keyword argument/parameter| Именованный аргумент/параметр |
| mapping                   | mapping (нет перевода)|
| awaitable                 | awaitable (нет перевода) или: поддерживающий await |
| positional-only           | только позиционный    |
| keyword-only              | только именованный    |
